hey guys welcome to my channel I
recently realized that I missed Germany
so much it's been eight years since I've
studied there and it's been like almost
five years since I visited I decided to
recreate my memories I decided to sit
down and remember 40 most common phrases
in German I know you like this format so
this video is about phrases that Germans
use every day and if you use them your
speech is going to be more natural so if
you're interested please continue
watching this video now I'm gonna start
with two phrases that you just have to
know I hope you know them because
they're really basic so good and tack is
the way you greet people and this means
hey hello a good intact fortune talk the
second phrase you normally tell people
is the gates and V gates if you
translate is how is it going so how are
you but if you want to be more informal
if you are meeting with your friend or
with your colleague you can say bus gate
up and if you translated word to word
it's like what's going on you can also
hear that in American English hey what's
going on so in German that would be
hello bus gate up a very standard answer
that we haven't learned to school but my
I had a private tutor who taught me that
she said that Germans use s key which is
I'm fine it's it's going well so s gate
and I think this is one of the most
common ways to answer the question bus
pass kita you should say escaped another
phrase is if you want to be more
specific you can say Mia gates good
which means that I'm doing well I'm
doing fine now I'm gonna talk about a
phrase that is really typical for the
place where I studied and I started in
Dresden which is Saxon and they like to
insert those small fillers and one of
the fillers is not or in Jasmine they
say no so if you want to sound more
German etna to everything for example
when you were explaining something
and you want to make sure that the
person understood or you can say nah
I'll ask lat
which means so did you get it now we are
slowly approaching words that I
intermediate upper intermediate and
almost advanced now this is a phrase
that you have probably heard and it goes
like a fresh day new man hope this is an
idiom so idiom is a phrase that you do
not translate word to word you have to
know the meaning if you're staying new
band off if you should say word to word
you will get I only understand the train
station which has no sense but in German
if you say a fresh day nobody hope it
means that you don't understand a thing
in English the equivalent would be it's
all Greek to me
so for example when you're in a company
of friends and everybody speaks German
and you're just a beginner you can say a
fresh tan with madhawk which means you
don't get a thing
another great phrase Germans use it a
lot Allah and pun ished via which means
every beginning is tough we just true
but when you're sitting something new
and you're struggling for example you're
studying to learn German and it's going
really slowly you can write on your wall
Alice I'm fun idea and this is gonna
help you it's gonna motivate you to
overcome those difficulties now if
you've been to Germany or if you've met
a German in your life you probably know
this phrase and this is post this is the
same as Cheers
so when you drink when you're doing
German beer when you want to cheer you
say post post a great way to say no if
you want to sound more informal is to
say nay so you don't say nein nein is
very formal but yes this is the standard
word but knee is again really informal
you can use it in circle of friends
simply asks you to wanna go somewhere
you like me another great phrase is
Alfie and fun which means in any case a
fee and file can be enough Los Angeles
in a navaja in any case we're gonna go
to Los Angeles in a week another filler
word when you are thinking of something
you're kind of agreeing with the person
but you are you still have some doubts
you can say nyeh
for example somebody tells you something
and you're like now yeah Allah hu wanted
us sneak but if you just say that in
English would be well so well yes this
sounds good but I didn't want to do that
word number 13
I think only Germans have it I don't
know Russians maybe have it as well but
the word is Y which is yeah and nine
together which is like yes and no
together I don't think there is any : in
English but yang again if you are
endowed you don't want to agree but you
don't want to disagree you can say yeah
the next word is one of my favorites
it's chilling and if you know English
and you should know English you're
watching this video it's the same as to
chill thinking of an example best mr.
Martin it's been chillin what do you
want to do I just want to chill when
somebody invites you to do something and
you want to go you can say yeah benda by
for example somebody invites you to go
out you can instead of just saying yes
you can say yeah it's been good bye when
somebody starts annoying you and you're
like come on dude relax you can say and
Bundy
which means relax come on Bundy and
spawn days now we're gonna go into the
awesome synonyms so there are several
ways that you can say awesome in German
instead of saying sure nor muntaba there
are other words that you can use first
word is guy guy low means awesome as I
already said the second word is FET and
you can use it in the meaning of awesome
and the third word is cuss it can have a
negative meaning as well when some
something is really disturbing you say
cuss but normally it's a really strong
word for awesome when you are sick of
something when you tried of something
you can say Java denazification means to
be sick of something to be tired of
something and again this is an idiom you
do not translate a word to word this
doesn't mean that something is
can you knows this is just the meaning
of being tired of something the next
phrase is bobbing and it comes with the
preposition of each have a balk elfs
Essen which means yes I would like to
eat something Bach happen another phrase
I use it in English all the time
fingers crossed the equivalent in German
is M and M D diamond token it to Kadir
determine which means I'm keeping
fingers crossed videos if you've got to
be down below and establish taste when
you want to tell somebody to wait a
little you can say I'm an alkene click
bitte which means can you wait for a
twinkle of an eye like for a really
really short period of time I'm an out
of like the 10 okay now we're gonna go a
little into the phrases that you would
use if you're traveling to Germany if
you are buying stuff and you want to ask
somebody for something at the shop when
you want to know the price you say we
costed us which means how much does this
cost we feel cost it does when you go
into the shop and the shop assistant
approaches you he or she will probably
ask you fast milkman see which means
what do you want what are you looking
for the next one really useful for
Americans traveling abroad I just
realized that some banks actually charge
you a foreign transaction fee when you
use your American card abroad to pay
you're in a foreign currency it's safer
to carry pocket with you which is cash
and if you want to ask if you can pay
cash somewhere you can ask Debbie Smith
baguette battalion can I pay with cash
this way you're gonna be safe you know
gonna pay this foreign transaction fee
by the way if you want to travel to
Germany and if you don't want to be just
a tourist which just walks around and
looks at beautiful palaces and houses
but actually immerses in a German
culture I would advise you to take
language course and when I was 18 I went
to Germany to rule in to a school called
WS and I took a German course there I
stayed with an amazing local family and
the story is you know what their last
name was it's not swearing it's their
last name it's it's fun it's just just
the same spelling
f uck and whenever I said I'm like is it
real then I realized it's German word
yes this is the last name but
cellularity yet they were amazing they
were like the best host family in the
world they didn't speak a word in
English to me they just used German so I
had to practice and practice all the
time so he want to go to Germany check
out the link below lingua Tripp was
inspired Lima trip is my company and it
was inspired by one of those trips when
I had to look for everything myself and
figure out the school myself
Commendation link will be below and I
will be super happy if you use our
website to travel to Germany to practice
your german so imagine you're already in
germany and you went out with your
friends to get some I don't know V
notion it says to eat and get some beer
you're finished with your eating and you
can say dyrdek move bitte which means
check please can I pay and when the
waiter comes in he says for instance
sponsee oil which has 20 euros and you
give him 25 because you are generous and
you want to live some tips and you say
steamed saw which means please take my
money I don't need change it it's okay
this is your tip stimmt saw but then you
suddenly realize you want another beer
and you can say no I know bitter which
is one more please when you find
yourself in a crowded place and you want
to apologize to people that you have to
kind of push them to get through you can
say toffee smile it for a bite which
means skinny please squeeze and get
there sorry when you need help you can
ask Conan seem a bit too healthy
can you please help me and when you're
meeting a new person and you want to say
it was nice to meet you you can say
shown Zee Kenan Suleiman which means it
was nice to meet you if you have a
friend in Germany and he has his
birthday you can say alles gute zum
Geburtstag which means have birthday I
wish you all the best favorite things
the next phrase is super easy but again
if you are dining with Germans and if
you want to wish them a good meal I know
again in English this is not
really common phrase you wouldn't well
you would say enjoy your meal but I feel
that in Europe people use this phrase
even more in Germany you would say guten
Appetit which means enjoy your meal
when you agree with somebody you can say
yeah which is yes but you can also say
HT media soup which means I agree with
you another idiom determines use a lot
as the Chuck has shown up coupon which
means the ship has already sailed it's
gone I'm sorry you missed your chance
another one that I struggled to learn
for such a long time because for me
didn't drink a lot of sense from the
start but when you agree with somebody
as I said you can yeah and you can say
nah yeah but if you want to be more
complicated more proficient you can say
I can make Shawn Abba again this is the
way to say you're kind of agreeing but
you have some doubts I give Li Shan
other there's this time that we've
finished our videos and here are some
ways to say bye in German misspeta means
I will see you soon
see you soon max good is they cool
enough have a good one have a good day
max good and your favorite one is choose
which means bye bye thank you so much
for watching this video after the very
end the useful links will be below
please check the description out and let
me know if you enjoyed watching this
video let me know what kind of level of
German you are at now because phrases
really depend on your level so if you
are more advanced I will do more
advanced next time if you were more
beginner I will do more beginner phrases
so I'm waiting for your comments please
like this video if you enjoyed it and do
not forget to subscribe to my channel to
learn more amazing phrases in German and
Allisyn bye
[Music]